Overview:

Between 2:00 pm and 3:00 pm Mountain Standard Time the pizza creation and ordering endpoint became completely unusable. Chaos testing was in use, therefore our team has determined it was the work of our own system testing, not a malicious attack. Response time was delayed because logging was not fully operational, and our team had to revise the logging system in order to determine the cause and further actions. In the future this will be improved by extra care being put into tests of our logging system inside our codebase, as well as the Grafana table visualisations. 

Detection:

An increase in pizza creation failures was noted by our chief DevOps officer, then direct system testing showed a complete break in the endpoint. At this point the logs were revised to show the error and action was taken. Repair time could be improved by better understanding of Grafana by the observability team. Now that proper logs are in place repair time should be improved by thirty minutes

Impact:

This breakdown caused a complete cessation of revenue through the website for the entire hour of system breakdown. This has massive implications for JWT Pizza because it was during a time of high traffic to the website. This has, however, made it much easier for our team to understand how to fix such problems and will lead to improvements in self healing protocols and performance of the site generally.

Root Cause:

Chaos testing shut down the ordering and pizza creation functionality to test our ability to respond. The repair was done by executing a url to prove to the chaos system that we are vigilantly observing our system.